# BFIM: Performance Measurement of a Blockchain Based Hierarchical Tree Layered Fog-IoT Microservice Architecture

Fog computing complements cloud computing by removing several limitations, such as delays and network
bandwidth. It emerged to support Internet of Things (IoT) applications wherein its computations and tasks
are carried out at the network’s edge. Heterogeneous IoT devices interact with different users throughout a
network. However, data security is a crucial concern for IoT, fog and cloud network ecosystems. Since the
number of anonymous users increases and new identity disclosures occur within the IoTs, it is becoming
challenging to grow mesh networks to deliver end to end communications, as the extended IoT networks
resemble a mesh architecture. To reinforce data security over IoTs, we deploy a microservice-based
blockchain mechanism for fogs, which works as a decentralized client-server network medium (i.e., secured
end device-based communication). We implement a blockchain equipped security scheme to be used with a
fog-IoT hierarchical tree-based overlay mesh architecture to address and develop the network performance
issues. In this study, we consider encryption and decryption delays from IoT and fog-integrated parts to
monitor data records and compare them through the developed security scheme. The blocks of a blockchain
offer the desired execution results mainly in terms of the algorithmic efficiency, which correlates with the
existing algorithms, namely the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), the Rivest Shamir Adleman (RSA),
and the Data Encryption Standard (DES). Our ‘BFIM’ scheme has an enhanced task scheduling capacity and
a more efficient throughput than the AES, DES, RSA resource deliverables (i.e., tasks). Our comprehensive
performance evaluation implies that the Blockchain-based Fog IoT Microservice (i.e., BFIM) architecture
provides a task delivery efficiency of 78.79% (i.e., task deliverable) and a service delivery efficiency of
83.24% (i.e., task scheduling). The ‘BFIM’ also has an overall process delivery efficiency of 75% (i.e.,
time delay, throughput) in the fog layer, rather than a central cloud layer running the AES, DES, and RSA
algorithms.
